Upgrade: Add v1.0.3 Known issues (#183)
harvester/docs: docs/upgrade/v1-0-2-to-v1-0-3.md

# Upgrade from v1.0.2 to v1.0.3

## General information

The Harvester GUI Dashboard page should have an upgrade button to perform an upgrade. For more details please refer to [start an upgrade](./automatic.md#start-an-upgrade).

For the air-gap env upgrade, please refer to [prepare an air-gapped upgrade](./automatic.md#prepare-an-air-gapped-upgrade).

## Known issues

---

### 1. Fail to download the upgrade image

**Description**

Downloading the upgrade image can't be complete or fails with an error.

![](./assets/known_issue_downloading_image_failure.png)

**Related issues**

- [[BUG] failed to create upgrade image](https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/2104)

**Workaround**

Delete the current upgrade and start over. Please see ["Start over an upgrade"](troubleshooting.md#start-over-an-upgrade).
    
---

### 2. Upgrade is stuck, a node is in "Pre-drained" state

**Description**

Users might see a node is stuck at the Pre-drained state for a while (> 30 minutes).

![](./assets/known_issues/2053-stuck.png){: style="width:50%"}

> This might be caused by instance-manager-r pod on node `harvester-z7j2g` can’t be drained. To verify:

Author: Thanks, apply all suggestions!

    pvc-9a6539b8-44e5-430e-9b24-ea8290cb13b7   attached   healthy      True        53687091200   harvester-x9jqw   3d13h
    ```
    
    Here we can see volume `pvc-9a40e5b9-543a-4c90-aafd-ac78b05d7599` is degraded.
    
    **NOTE:** the user needs to check all degraded volumes one by one.
    
- Check degraded volume’s replica state:
    
    ```bash
    kubectl get replicas -n longhorn-system --selector longhornvolume=pvc-9a40e5b9-543a-4c90-aafd-ac78b05d7599 -o json | jq '.items[] | {replica: .metadata.name, healthyAt: .spec.healthyAt, nodeID: .spec.nodeID, state: .status.currentState}'
    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    ```
    {
      "replica": "pvc-9a40e5b9-543a-4c90-aafd-ac78b05d7599-r-15e31246",
      "healthyAt": "2022-07-25T07:33:16Z",
      "nodeID": "harvester-z7j2g",
      "state": "running"
    }
    {
      "replica": "pvc-9a40e5b9-543a-4c90-aafd-ac78b05d7599-r-22974d0f",
      "healthyAt": "",
      "nodeID": "harvester-279l2",
      "state": "running"
    }
    {
      "replica": "pvc-9a40e5b9-543a-4c90-aafd-ac78b05d7599-r-bc6f7fa5",
      "healthyAt": "",
      "nodeID": "harvester-x9jqw",
      "state": "stopped"
    }
    ```
    

>     Here the only healthy replica is `pvc-9a40e5b9-543a-4c90-aafd-ac78b05d7599-r-15e31246` and it’s on node `harvester-z7j2g`. So we can confirm the instance-manager-r pod resides on node `harvester-z7j2g` and avoids the drain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Here the only healthy replica is `pvc-9a40e5b9-543a-4c90-aafd-ac78b05d7599-r-15e31246` and it’s on node `harvester-z7j2g`. So we can confirm the `instance-manager-r-*` pod resides on node `harvester-z7j2g` and avoids the drain.
```

    (...)
    Disk File Status Map:
        3830342d-c13d-4e55-ac74-99cad529e9d4:
          Last State Transition Time:  2022-07-25T08:30:34Z
          Message:
          Progress:                    29
          State:                       in-progress
        3aa804e1-229d-4141-8816-1f6a7c6c3096:
          Last State Transition Time:  2022-07-25T08:33:20Z
          Message:
          Progress:                    100
          State:                       ready
        92726efa-bfb3-478e-8553-3206ad34ce70:
          Last State Transition Time:  2022-07-28T04:31:49Z
          Message:
          Progress:                    100
          State:                       ready
    ```
    
    The disk file with UUID `3830342d-c13d-4e55-ac74-99cad529e9d4` has the state `in-progress`.
    
- Next, we need to find backing-image-manager that contains this disk file:
    
    ```bash
    kubectl get pod -n longhorn-system --selector=longhorn.io/disk-uuid=3830342d-c13d-4e55-ac74-99cad529e9d4
    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    ```
    NAME                              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    backing-image-manager-c00e-3830   1/1     Running   0          3d1h
    ```
    

> - Restart the backing-image-manager:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Restart the backing-image-manager by deleting its pod:
```

          State:                       ready
        92726efa-bfb3-478e-8553-3206ad34ce70:
          Last State Transition Time:  2022-07-28T04:31:49Z
          Message:
          Progress:                    100
          State:                       ready
    ```
    
    The disk file with UUID `3830342d-c13d-4e55-ac74-99cad529e9d4` has the state `in-progress`.
    
- Next, we need to find backing-image-manager that contains this disk file:
    
    ```bash
    kubectl get pod -n longhorn-system --selector=longhorn.io/disk-uuid=3830342d-c13d-4e55-ac74-99cad529e9d4
    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    ```
    NAME                              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    backing-image-manager-c00e-3830   1/1     Running   0          3d1h
    ```
    
- Restart the backing-image-manager by deleting its pod:
    
    ```bash
    kubectl delete pod -n longhorn-system backing-image-manager-c00e-3830
    ```

---

### 3. An upgrade is stuck, a node is in "Pre-drained" state (case 2)

**Description**

Users might see a node is stuck at the Pre-drained state for a while (> 30 minutes).

![](./assets/known_issues/2640-stuck.png){: style="width:50%"}

> The following are some steps to verify this issue happens:

Reviewer 2: `Here are some steps to verify this issue has happened:` might be better?

> The following are some steps to verify this issue happens:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are some steps to verify this issue has happened:
```

- Visit the Longhorn GUI: `https://{{VIP}}/k8s/clusters/local/api/v1/namespaces/longhorn-system/services/http:longhorn-frontend:80/proxy/#/volume` (replace VIP with an appropriate value) and check degraded volumes. The degraded volume might contain a healthy replica only (with blue background) and the healthy replica resides on the "Pre-drained" node:

    ![](./assets/known_issues/2640-vol-1.png)

- Hover the mouse to the red scheduled icon, the reason is `toomanysnapshots`:

    ![](./assets/known_issues/2640-vol-2.png)

**Related issues**

- [[BUG] Upgrade is stuck in "Pre-drained" state (Volume has too many system snapshots)](https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/2640)

**Workaround**

> - In the "Snapshots and Backup" pane, toggle the "Show System Hidden" switch and delete the latest system snapshot (which is just before the "Volume Head").

Reviewer 2: s/pane/panel

> - In the "Snapshots and Backup" pane, toggle the "Show System Hidden" switch and delete the latest system snapshot (which is just before the "Volume Head").

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In the "Snapshots and Backup" panel, toggle the "Show System Hidden" switch and delete the latest system snapshot (which is just before the "Volume Head").
```

    ![](./assets/known_issues/2640-vol-3.png)

> - The volume will continue rebuilding and the upgrade will continue.

Reviewer 2: `The volume will continue rebuilding to resume the upgrade.` might be better?

> - The volume will continue rebuilding and the upgrade will continue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The volume will continue rebuilding to resume the upgrade.
```
